---
title: "What does better look like?"
description: "The individuals in your organization need to care about that version of better. Folks may disagree vehemently on the how, but the why needs…"
date: "2019-07-23T00:06:00.086Z"
categories: []
published: false
---

  

  

1.  What does better look like? Is your version of _better_ linked to better long-term business/customer outcomes? What is your organization willing to risk/invest to achieve _better_? A vague goal of “going faster if we can” is not conducive to using forcing functions (unless those forcing functions are very general / non-specific).
2.  The individuals in your organization need to care about that version of better. Folks may disagree vehemently on the how, but the why needs to resonate with some high % of the organization.
3.  Having some experience with either 1) moving a similar system towards that better state, and/or 2) working in that better state, can help. But it isn’t mandatory. General problem solving skills can get you a long way (and are broadly applicable). General problem solving skills can also be taught.
4.  Any forcing function can be abused, weaponized, misused, etc. Forcing functions also have a “design”, and that design is better suited to some contexts and goals.
5.  Forcing functions are useless without support, slack, safety, freedom, and an invitation to make things better. It’s like sending out a search and rescue boat, seeing flares, but being told to “stay the course”.
6.  Imposing forcing functions on individuals and teams is rarely successfully. You may get conformance, but you don’t get learning and meaningful change.
7.  Forcing functions must be matched appropriately to your goal of better. For example, shining a light on quality when you don’t care about quality (or see its connection to customer outcomes, or already excel at quality), won’t get you very far.
8.  Add “just enough” forcing functions to provide meaningful feedback and help you improve. A long list of 100 rules will lead to “breaking” 50 rules, but will not give you any sense of where (and how) to respond. Don’t use 10 rules/forcing functions when 2 will produce the same outcome and learning.
9.  There needs to be some commitment to play by the rules of the forcing function. For example, if the forcing function requires a “potentially releasable increment of the product” to be delivered the end of a timebox, and that effort happens to fail…well, do drastically less work next time. Don’t circumvent the forcing functions. Again, taking a leap of faith requires safety and support, and permission to take risks and fail.
10.  The forcing function is “tripped”. What does tripping the forcing function tell us? How do you interpret the data? A well-designed forcing function will help us tackle “the problem”. It provides information in context, and helps rule out certain causes.
11.  The environment needs to be conducive to “sensing” the information generated by the forcing function (and its surrounding system). A forcing function can work “perfectly” but provided little actionable information because of a lack of transparency, lack of safety, or lack of communication.
12.  Now what? How do we intervene? Experience helps here (e.g. when A happens, try X, Y, and Z in that order). That experience extends to sensing whether the intervention is “working”, and how to customize the intervention to local conditions. As mentioned earlier, general problem solving and sensemaking skills _can_ trump experience (especially if that experience is localized).
